title: "Freshbooks: Freelance financials made easy"
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-07-12 13:43:53 -0500
layout: post
type: post

If you're an entrepreneur, there's a single reason you bucked corporate America: formality. It's a world filled with meaningless titles, overcomplicated jargon, and generally confusing financial statements.

Contrary to what some believe, my life isn't all about the two-minute commute. Far more goes on, besides rolling out of bed, grabbing a coffee, and writing code. I've been known to lay awake at night doing everything from strategic analysis, to financial records in my head - and let me tell you - neither are fun.

Just over two years ago, I walked away from a dead-end job, and scribbled away at the beginnings of a new chapter. Having been away from my entreprenueral roots for several years, I was a fish out of water, and, in a desperate attempt to stay organized, tried several of the newest tools for time-tracking, bookkeeping, and the other drudgeries that come with being your own boss. Last week, I finally settled on <a href="https://www.freshbooks.com/?ref=fcf6c967137388-1" target="_blank">Freshbooks</a>.

After I lost several important financial documents to a hard drive failure earlier this year, <a href="https://www.freshbooks.com/?ref=fcf6c967137388-1" target="_blank">Freshbooks</a> is a welcome addition to an otherwise failing arsenal of business tools. If you're like me, and the nearest coffee shop is an ideal office, why are you keeping important records on your machine? Seriously, at any time, a thief could walk up and take more than just your equipment.

<a href="https://www.freshbooks.com/?ref=fcf6c967137388-1" target="_blank">Freshbooks</a> certainly lives up to it's name, offering a new perspective on your business' finances - but it's not all about being progressive. They offer a firm feature set that rivals even the stiffest competitors: merging time tracking, team management, and project analysis. The layout is clean and concise, the payment system is second-to-none, and like many small companies, their product is backed by killer support.

For me, the ability to have my financial information off site and always backed up means a lot. I'm no longer tethered to a specific piece of hardware, and I can worry about what my business needs, not what my accountant wants to see. I'd encourage you to sign up for a <a href="https://www.freshbooks.com/?ref=fcf6c967137388-1" target="_blank">free account</a>, so you can experience the difference firsthand.
