Now: Build Your Brand, Make Your Mark
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-06-19 16:10:32 -0500
layout: post
type: post

Recently, I've been approached by several new entrepreneurs. Some of them have never joined the game, and others are still playing by old rules. No matter which one you are, it is universally accepted that the game is changing. In this post, I hope to engage each of you - whether you're the work-from-home independent software developer, or have visions of being the president of your own corporation. No matter what your goals are, the pathway to success remains the same.

<strong>Break out the atlas</strong>
The first step is to know you're headed. When I started down this road two years ago, I wish someone had told me this. As it was, I spent 6 months defining my goals, and deciding what I wanted to be. By most business standards, I was an eighth grader who was still daydreaming about possible careers. I don't want you to be there, unless it is absolutely necessary. Take charge, and remember, it's okay to take a week off and plan your trip. You'll want the rest later, trust me.

<strong>Knowledge is the key</strong>
Once you've decided on a path, learn all that you can about your target career, and the industries that surround it. In today's world, it's no longer enough to know about your job; people will ask you to execute all sorts of tasks, and many of them may only be vaguely related to your career. Remember, this is the stage where if the client's happy, you get to eat. It's about building a reputation at this point. If you can perform, you succeed.

<strong>Build a platform</strong>
If you only take away one point from this, pay attention now. Remember all of that knowledge and experience you gathered in step 2? It's time to use it. With the constant change in the world of business, somebody is always willing to listen. For very little money (but a fair chunk of time), you can become the voice they listen to. Start a podcast about your industry, or fill a blog with tutorials and information that you've found useful - but whatever happens, don't let it be about you. Remember, people don't care about you, until they know how much they care. Now is the time to think like a leader.

<strong>Network</strong>
When creating media, make sure that you keep it to manageable chunks - not just for the consumers, but for you too. Do it on a schedule, so that there's time for networking. Roll up your sleeves and attend every networking event that you can. Connect with individuals both online and off, forging relationships that you can maintain even when you accidentally miss the social event.

<strong>Work the plan</strong>
By now, you're probably wondering where we lost our roadmap. Trust me, we didn't lose it - you'll need it - right about - now. That's right, we've laid a firm foundation, and a workable plan. It's time to just do it.
