title: The Future of the Internet - is Web 3.0 all that promising?
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-05-29 17:48:06 -0500
layout: post
type: post

"Change is inevitable - except from a vending machine." - Robert C. Gallagher

As more companies launch premium web services, I wonder if the "free" web business model we've known for so long is moving on and being replaced by more aggressive revenue systems. I, for one, see lots of potential in the "freemium" methodology, where a client gets baseline service, then pays for an upgrade, or at least gets a trial run of the software. You may think I'm crazy for posing this question - but in a world where analysts say <a href="http://www.multichannel.com/article/191223-YouTube_May_Lose_470_Million_In_2009_Analysts.php" target="_blank">Google could lose 470 million dollars</a> annually on the net's most popular video sharing site - it's still hard, but somebody's gotta ask.

As an entrepreneur who's running without startup capital, I see my finances dwindling daily. If I don't release a working, profitable product, my company will go under. The thing is, those who are backed by billions of dollars in venture monies definitely have a more luxurious, relaxed office environment, but what they fail to remember is the debt hanging over their head. Even if the company launches, it's generally 3 - 5 years before they break even, and somehow, in the midst of this economy, I've found the guts to demand better of myself. It's been a crazy year, but we're almost to the finish line.

Unfortunately, money is essential to living. We, those who are on the front line have a unique view. I know what I see in the future, how about you? We've got to protect our valuable assets, but at the same time, continue to take risks and move forward. Where do you stand?