title: Tony Hawk: Tweeting Globally, Interacting Locally
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-06-01 14:28:28 -0500
layout: post
type: post

Roughly 17 years ago, when a then college-aged skater went pro, I'm sure that he couldn't see what his future would hold, or imagine that he would be chatting directly with over 600,000 fans around the world, and engaging them in what was quite possibly, the worlds largest easter egg hunt. The prizes were great for those that found them, and, like all hunts - not everybody would win - but they would be given a fair chance.

<object class="floatRight" width="448" height="376" data="http://player.ordienetworks.com/flash/fodplayer.swf" type="application/x-shockwave-flash"><param name="id" value="ordie_player_eb1df4b742" /><param name="flashvars" value="key=eb1df4b742&amp;vert=shredordie" /><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true" /><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always" /><param name="src" value="http://player.ordienetworks.com/flash/fodplayer.swf" /><param name="name" value="ordie_player_eb1df4b742" /><param name="quality" value="high" /></object><a href="http://tonyhawk.com" target="_blank">Tony Hawk</a> is one of several public icons who has adapted quite well to the new, social climate we live in, and while some celebrities struggle to make the number of followers in the online space equal to the number of  real-life fans, Tony has managed to keep it real. He's realized that it's not about the numbers, but about the people.

On the morning of April 12, 2009, Tony's agents sprung into action, each hiding a deck signed by the man himself in a designated location. Tony then <a href="http://twitter.com/tonyhawk" target="_blank">tweeted</a> the locations to each prize, and waited for the results to roll in. Every time someone would find one of Tony's gems, they would (of course) post their findings to twitter. Tony, in turn, would retweet them - adding not only to his buzz, but theirs as well.

While I've really been a fan of extreme sports, I have to say, Tony's team hit the mark with this promotion. What do you think?
