title: Now: Rebooting Your Business
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-07-26 16:20:43 -0500
layout: post
type: post

<em>Preface: this post was originally written roughly two months ago, and I decided to hold it right before publishing, for fear of the kickback it could get from the community. During the time that this post sat dormant, I've learned many things that tell me now is the time for release. I honestly feel that it's poorly written, but perhaps the message will still be passed on. - Nicholas</em>

This post will probably infuriate some of you. That's alright, because the best messages are often the hardest to deliver. I'm not pointing fingers at anyone, but I am addressing widespread issues throughout the whole culture of American business.

Odds are, your business is fragmented. When it was mishandled - whether it be yesterday or  years ago - it shattered into a million pieces. Like the sharp edges of broken glass, each department - HR, customer service, and sales - have their own staff, policies, and positions. Above it all, sits the mighty administration, who, in some godlike fashion, attempts to keep each department functioning at it's best. If a department oversteps it's bounds, the members are punished. Sadly, this is what corporate America has become, and it isn't just large businesses that succumb to this form of "leadership"; I've seen many one office organizations fall to this level as well.

It's not uncommon to walk into the office of a CEO, ask about the statement of your account, and get shuffled off to the desk of his secretary. Though he won't admit it, she probably knows more about the company's financials, and that's why you were brushed away. Why, in the modern age of  laptops, iPhones, and digital finance systems, when knowledge is available with the click of a button, do we ignore our customers?

A wise man once told me, "time is all you have," and in the moment, I didn't realize how right he was. In the age where business is so impersonal, where you're just a number on the page, it's shocking to find anyone who takes time to show that they're human too. We're limited to 24 hours per day, but only a fraction of those can hold true worth. Do you want to be different? Try this: consider how much time your business spends pursuing new clients, and spend it with those who already buy your product. Ask them what they want to see, and add those features. CEO's: cut your time on the golf course by 15 minutes. Your buddies can wait for tee-time, your client only gives you one chance to invest in them.

Think about it.