title: Now: College 2.0
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-06-16 12:05:42 -0500
layout: post
type: post

Years ago, when information moved slower, graduating from a prestigous intstituion, with it's scholarly professors and large classrooms meant something. Now, it's just a sign of discipline to your employer - nothing more. But as large companies continue to destabilize or move outside your own country, does that piece of paper really matter? In "Now," the upcoming series of posts I'm going to dig into how employees can prepare for the new job market, how employers should think when choosing their next hire, and what it really means to reboot your business or career, and bring it into the 21st century. So hold on, this could be a rough ride.

As a high school graduate in the class of '06, my personal experience started in August of that year, when I chose to attend a community college, and at least get the basics out of the way, instead of spending the big bucks at my primary school of choice. There was one problem, though: I sucked at standardized testing. Like a measuring stick at the McDonalds ball pit, I simply didn't measure up to my primary school's requirements, and though, much to the professors delight, I wowed everyone during our campus tour, there simply would be no admission.

Destined to never fit in, I was a student who broke the mold - and, even though I didn't know at the time - my life would continue to be different, well past my college experiences.  Time marched on, and two years later, my passion for videography had waned. During those years, I ran a professional production house out of my bedroom, producing videos for anybody who needed one - including a rather well-known bluegrass group - but I wasn't destined to stay there either. No, I hadn't found my calling yet, and in the summer of 2007, I made my move. Though I had no idea where this geographic shift would take me, I hit the pavement for Music City USA, and enrolled in a recently established private school, where I would spend roughly six months discovering things I never knew about myself. For one, my life was a lie: going to school, and learning a single subject or trade wasn't my destiny. No, I wanted to do something different - to smash uncommon ideas with technology - thereby creating something truly unique. In September of that year, I founded ArtistOne, and haven't looked back since.

While in college I learned nothing, except that my pocketbook was slowly being drained. Oh, maybe my expenses were paid during school, but the loans afterwards could have reached devastating proportions. Any useful knowledge that I've gained was when I went out and pounded the pavement - hanging out at various networking events, or offering to help with a community gathering. My career skills were shaped by real life experiences, not college professors - and if you don't understand - I have news for you: there's thousands of skilled young professionals just like me out there, waiting for your call. They don't have the degree, but they have the potential to take your business to new heights. Sure, it's a gamble on your part, but train them right, and you'll have a workforce like no other.

Businesses: it's time to open your eyes to the credentials of college 2.0.
