title: Open: a Word to Live By in 2010
author: Nicholas
date: 2010-01-06 16:20:38 -0600
layout: post
type: post

Disclaimer: This post is the obligatory inspirational one, and isn't kid or work safe. If your boss recommends that you read it, he's an honorable man, and you should follow his direction. However, if I worked in a corporate-conglomerate's cube farm, I probably wouldn't recommend this to my boss. Some stuff in here, if lived by, could be grounds for firing.

Open. It's a word that scares most people - if they've got something to hide. In the past month, I've encountered many individuals who were frightened by the concept of transparency, and this post is for them. While most people said 2009 sucked, mine was actually quite pleasurable - but, that isn't to say it was all sunny, and those overcast times led me to formulate a list of rules that I plan to live by in 2010, and will share with you here. This list is a call to live boldly, transparently, and take every chance to make your dreams come true.

Rule #1 No bullshit.

When asked a direct question, individuals tend to cover up their lack of knowledge by spouting off buzzwords they gathered from peers. This happens in social settings, the workplace, and yes, even at home. 2010 is the year of no bullshit - if you don't know the answer, there's Wikipedia. Consultants and "social media" experts should be watched closely when it comes to violating this rule. Most of 'em do it every day.

Rule #2 Make things happen.

Nothing ever happens by chance. Look at Facebook, Digg, or Twitter. Do you think those giants stumbled into success blindly, or without thousands of working hours? Not a chance. Success only comes to those who work their asses off - and then, when they start expanding their dreams to include employees, they continue to work - thereby encouraging the other workers to put in an equal amount of effort.

Rule #3 Work with those you trust.

Non-disclosure and non-compete agreements are an overused staple in the business world, if you ask me. Sure, you've got to keep people quiet, but what good does paper do if you're not working with someone you trust. Example: I just had someone ask me to sign a document, noting that I would never talk to a specific individual again. I tried to explain to them how it would hinder both involved parties in the future, but they wouldn't hear it. Everything comes down to trust.

Rule #4 Connect, connect, connect.

Community is the cornerstone upon which these rules rest. If you don't have mates to keep you accountable, you might be tempted to lie to someone, let your dreams go, or settle for less than your ideal business partner. Keep people that are important to you close, and make sure to stay involved in their lives. Communication is easier than ever, so there's no excuses for being disconnected. On the flip-side, if someone is dragging you down, don't be afraid to cut the cord. You can't make up for all of their shortcomings, so why should you put up with them any longer? Don't be ashamed, just because you can't do the job of two individuals. Walk away, and go on to find the career that's ideal for you.

How do you plan to live in 2010? Let me know - I'd love to know where you're headed.
