title: Polish Your Personal Brand
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-06-02 14:40:50 -0500
layout: post
type: post

This post speaks directly from experience. Over the past two years, I've founded a company, gained many new friends, and in the process, built moderately strong personal and professional brands. During the past few weeks, I've been musing on which one is more important - being known for <em>your</em> skill-set, aspirations, and experience - or, if you have a business presence, should the strength of your services there stand taller? The answer to this question lies in the murky waters of discernment, and honestly, everything depends on how you want to be viewed. Still puzzled? Let me explain.

One of my favorite digital entrepreneurs, <a href="http://leoville.com" target="_blank">Leo Laporte</a> once noted that our economy has fundamentally changed, in what I believe to be a rather drastic move away from what enterprising business people of the previous century expect to do: found a company, and run it for years - or until they run out of capital. Recently, the widespread availability of venture capital has enabled almost anybody with a decent understanding of the web to build a product virtually overnight when compared to the timelines of older firms. Many of these web companies will fail, but the rest of them will likely be sold to the highest bidder, or be rather profitable themselves - but there will come a day when the owner is tired, and will start another project. I know, because I'm standing at this crossroads now: one project ready to launch, countless ideas bouncing around inside my head. Leo cited this new age of entreprenuership as being "gig-based", and I can hardly agree more.

So, with that thought, don't buckle yourself to a specific company, market, or level of clientele. Build a solid personal brand that outshines anything you've done so far. Otherwise - you're only hindering yourself.