title: Talk Back: A Strategy for Dealing with Customer and Public Relations in Today's World
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-12-01 02:18:01 -0600
layout: post
type: post

"Hi Nicholas. Great to chat with you today." Earlier this week, I received a e-mail from a prominent video platform service provider. The quote you just read came from the top of their message, and was, what I believe to be an honest, hand-typed greeting to me. However, the rest wasn't so nice. What follows is an 8-section drone about how great their service is, in red text, capitals, and yellow highlighting - hardly what I would call engaging. Honestly, I just read the first few lines and quit.

Last week, I was cleaning out people that I follow on my Twitter account, and ran across a PR agency that I'm familiar with. Their stream was purely promotional. One tweet was recommending that their followers vote for a client of theirs in a contest, and the others were just excess social media barf, that, when tweeted, somehow makes them "cool," even though I've read the news multiple times before they found it. After my brief breeze through their tweets, I un-followed them without a second thought.

Over a year ago, I was looking for a e-mail marketing provider. I signed up for a trial account at MadMimi, a small, New York based firm, and after my initial test-run, I had a few questions, so I fired off an email. Gary, the guy that answered me, did so within a couple of hours, and didn't try to sell me on his product - he was just there, and took care of my immediate needs. A few weeks later, I signed up, and shortly thereafter, spoke with Gary, the CEO. Yes, it was the same person, and whether or not Gary purposefully concealed his position in the company, I don't know - but he did what mattered most, and just reached out.

So, what's the difference here? One company succeeded, and has won a customer for life, while the other two have failed miserably - and will have to work if they want my business. Why? Because they spent time investing in me, investing in a conversation, and treated me like a person that has a voice, rather than just a listener whose sole job is to listen to their sales pitch.

While I haven't read the much touted Cluetrain Manifesto, I get the general premise. Markets are conversations, and if you're not in the conversation, your hopes of success are effectively dead. Conversations can take place in multiple ways - through the release of open source software, or community driven outreaches to developers and bloggers, but nothing beats taking five minutes to write a personal e-mail, or spending 15 minutes a day communicating one-on-one with your twitter followers.

This isn't hard to do, and if you have something to sell, or are touting yourself as a new media marketing firm and you don't practice this - you might as well get lost, because you're already off the beaten path.
