title: "Michael Masnick: The Trent Reznor Case Study"
author: Nicholas
date: 2009-05-30 16:52:57 -0500
layout: post
type: post

The Leadership Music Digital Summit (LMDS) is an annual event held here in Nashville, Tennessee. It's very fitting that the event is located here, as Nashville is, and will always be, Music City USA. The event's location is also very ironic, considering that many of these large labels haven't showed signs of changing too much in recent months, or maybe it's not the subsidiaries here, but their national owners that we've been seeing in the news so much lately.

<object class="floatRight" width="400" height="300" data="http://vimeo.com/moogaloop.swf?clip_id=4244922&amp;server=vimeo.com&amp;show_title=1&amp;show_byline=1&amp;show_portrait=0&amp;color=&amp;fullscreen=1" type="application/x-shockwave-flash"><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true" /><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always" /><param name="src" value="http://vimeo.com/moogaloop.swf?clip_id=4244922&amp;server=vimeo.com&amp;show_title=1&amp;show_byline=1&amp;show_portrait=0&amp;color=&amp;fullscreen=1" /></object>I'm ashamed to say that I haven't attended a single LMDS since moving here in early August '07. Maybe next year will be my first, I certainly hope so. Up until now, I didn't know what to really think of the event. If they were just putting a bunch of RIAA label-figureheads in the room to banter about digital media, then I'll certainly pass. If they're going to do something radical like Michael Masnick's attempt to change the industries' revenue paradigm, I'm totally in. 

Many of you know Michael from his blog TechDirt, but as I learned in this video, he's so much more than that. In a matter of 15 minutes, he unravels what he calls the "Trent Reznor model," a revenue system that so many music industry execs either love or abhor, but are curious about nonetheless. 

In his presentation from LMDS (embedded below), he breaks Trent's business model down into two points of action: connect with your fans, and give them a reason to buy your product. Connecting with fans doesn't mean the occasional mailing, but rather giving them something to sink their teeth into. It's all about involvement in the lives of your fans. Likewise, giving them a reason to buy also requires work, but when executed correctly (by using scarcity, or other value-adding techniques) the fan has an opportunity to purchase an item that it worth their hard-earned dollar, and isn't like what everybody else has.

Before going anywhere else, watch and learn from this video. Michael's analysis is spot on. Heck, you may have to watch it twice to absorb everything, and that's ok. Whatever it takes, just watch it.